---
id: standardFileDescriptors
aliases:
  - Standard File Descriptors
tags:
  - linux
  - file descriptors
---

# Standard File Descriptors

The Linux system handles every object as a file. This includes the input and
output process.

- Linux identifies each file object using a _file descriptor_.

  - The file descriptor is a non-negative integer that uniquely identifies open
    files in a session.

  - Each process is allowed to have up to nine open file descriptors at a time.

The bash shell reserves the first three file descriptors for its own use.

| File Descriptor | Abbreviation | Description     |
| --------------- | ------------ | --------------- |
| 0               | STDIN        | Standard Input  |
| 1               | STDOUT       | Standard Output |
| 2               | STDERR       | Standard Error  |

These three special file descriptors handle the input and output from your
script. The shell uses them to direct the default input and output in the shell
to the appropriate location, which by default is usually your monitor.

## STDIN

The `STDIN` file descriptor references the standard input to the shell. For a
terminal interface, the standard input is the keyboard.

When you use the input redirection operator `<`, Linux replaces the standard
input file descriptor with the file referenced by the redirection.

```bash
cat < testfile
This is the first line
This is the second line
This is the third line
```

- Entering `cat < testfile` and pressing enter will then add any further input
  to the file `testfile`.

## STDOUT

The STDOUT file descriptor references the standard output for the shell. On a
terminal interface, the standard output is the terminal monitor.

- All output from the shell is sent to the standard output file descriptor.

```bash
ls -l > test2
cat test2
total 20
-rw-rw-r-- 1 rich rich 53 2014-10-16 11:30 test
-rw-rw-r-- 1 rich rich 0 2014-10-16 11:32 test2
-rw-rw-r-- 1 rich rich 73 2014-10-16 11:23 testfile
```

- With the output redirection symbol, all the output that normally would go to
  the monitor is instead redirected to the designated file.

- To append data to a file use the `>>` operator.

```bash
who >> test2
```

- The output generated by the `who` command is appended to the `test2` file.

- When a command produces an error message, the shell doesn't redirect the error
  message to the output redirection file. The shell created the output
  redirection file, but the error message appeared on the monitor.

## STDERR

The shell handles error messages using the special `STDERR` file descriptor.

- By default, the `STDERR` file descriptor points to the same place as the `STDOUT`.
  - That means that all error messages are sent to the monitor.
